A variable is a name for a location in memory that stores data in a specific 
data type.

The following are all Primitive Types
Integer numbers: byte, short, int, long
byte - 8 bit ex. literal: 24
short - 16 bit ex. literal: 137
int - 32 bit ex. literal: 5409
long - 64 bit ex. literal: 423266353L

Real numbers: float, double
float - single precision floating point ex. literal: 43.889F
double - double precision floating point ex. literal: 45.63

Other types: char, boolean
char - a single character (16 bit) ex. literal: 'm' 
boolean - a boolean value (only holds true or false)

Formal parameters - formal declaration of parameters in method

walk(int steps, boolean toward)
	amer.walk(10, false);

boolean walk(int steps)
	return true;

void walk(int steps)  void is a data type; can only be used in method headers in place of
	return true;  data types. It represents "no return value". *midterm question
null - It's a value, a memory address of all zeroes. 
Represents "no object reference" *midterm question

DONT DO:
void walk(int steps)	pointless break, is not necessary if code is written properly
	return; 	

Expression - code that gets evaluated

Statement - code that gets executed

Top area of bluej's boxes are classes *midterm question
Right area of bluej is the code pad *midterm question
Arrows in classes are called "uses" or "reference arrows" *midterm question
Where objects exist in bluej is called the "object bench" *midterm question

Everything is public except fields, "private" protects the field

Capitalization means it's a class

If it is a primitive data type that means the value of the 
primitive data types are stored in the variable itself. *midterm question

The values of a string are not stored in a variable, they're stored elsewhere.
The variable holds a memory address

Int and integer are NOT the same. Int is a data type.

Anything with double quotes is a string *midterm question

Right click the obejct in bluej to invoke a method 
OR 
Put code in code pad

EX: right clicking person1 and clicking "void makeVisible()" would work
OR typing person1.makeVisible() in the code pad would work. 

Int is the default data type for integer numbers *midterm question
Double is the default data type for real numbers *midterm question

System.out.print("Hello World"); vs. System.out.println("Hello World");
println or Print Line, does a character return and makes a new line
regular print leaves cursor at the end of the string, and allows for 
continuation on same line. 

NOTE: System.out.println(""); and System.out.print("Hello World /n");
Do the SAME thing, ln just mmakes things easily readible. 
*You can also do System.out.println("Hello World /n") for TWO line breaks

/n on newer version of windows and mac does a carriage return and new line
/n is platform specific

















