Midterm Study Guides

Primitive types 
byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean, char

Top area of bluej with boxes are classes
Right area of bluej is the code pad
Arrows in classes are called "uses" or "reference arrows"
Where objects exist in bluej is called the "object bench"

If it is a primitive data type that means the value of the primitive 
data types are stored in the varibale itself

Anything with double quotes is a string

Int is the default data type for integer numbers
Double is the default data type for real numbers

Fields store value for an object
Fields are also known as instance variables

Constructors initialize an object and have the same name as their class

Accessor methods always have a return type, returns a value of the type given 
in the header. 
Mutator methods alter the state of an object

Local variables must be initialized at time of declaration

Primtitive type values store the value in the object itself
Reference types for objects don't hold values, the values are stored in a memory address
in which the value is referenced 

Single quotes is a char not string

5%3 returns 2, because 5/3 has a remainder of 2.

5.0%3 = 2.0 (double)
The sign of mod follows the left operand tool 

All operators are unary, binary, or trunary (based on how many operands
they take)

the dot operator (.) is for methods and right hand operand. It gets 
invoked on the left hand operand which is an object. The object 
is usually a variable that references an object or a class. 

Important info about loops
1. Declare and initialize local variables
2. Condition of each variable 
3. Retrieve 
4. Mutation (each variable)

Class diagraam in static view
Static means the code does not change at runtime 
Object diagrams are dynamic because they are time dependent 

Value semantics ***
There are two different locations and two different values.

Overloading - just more than one 
More than one function, parameter, variable, etc. 

Null's physical value is a memory address of all zeroes 
while it means there are no objects. Null is a value not a data type.
null vs. void 
null 
Means undefined or no memory address is being pointed to
Used in code to represent no object reference exists
void 
Means empty or no data type
Used in place of the return type for a method when no value 
is being returned

Debugging - Stepping through the code line by line during execution
and during that time observing at current state of variables values
to see if it changes or doesn't change as you are expecting it to. 
Once you find the error/bug, then fix it.

Errors come in three different flavors 
Syntax
* Errors in the code text itself
* Found when compiling with unrecognizable text
* Fix by editing code

Logic
* Errors in the behavior of the program
* Found when running with unexpected results
* Fix by debugging and observing states

Runtime
* Errors which prohibit program from completing
* Found when executing the program
* Fix by tracing, debugging, observing and editing

What does a breakpoint do?
Pauses or halts the code before the line of code has been executed.

Step vs step into buttons
They both execute the next line of code
Step takes the line as one whole line
Step into will check for user defined methods and step into them.




